Questions Prepared By: DEVANG SHARMA
All Rights Owned and Reserved By: DEVANG SHARMA


CORE Java Interview Questions:

1.   Can we override static method in java?
2.   Can you overload main method in java?
3. Can we override private methods in java?
4. What is the base class for all the classes?
5.   Can you list down some of important method from object class?
6.   Which two methods should you override while putting the custom object as Key in HashMap?
7.  What is the difference between HashMap and HashSet in java?
8. Can we have abstract class without having any abstract method in it?
9. Have you heard about transient variable? When will you use it?
10. Can you call start method twice in java?
11. Do you know why String is immutable in java?
12. Do you know how to make a class immutable? Can you provide steps for it?
13. Can we have static method in the interface?
14. Can you declare constructor final?
15. What is the difference between StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
16. What is Java ClassPath?
17. You have a list of Custom objects? How can you sort them?
18. What is volatile in java?
19. What are two different ways to call garbage collector?
20. What is marker interface in java? Can you provide some examples of marker interface?
21. How many objects will be created below:
22. Can you differentiate between Checked Exception and Unchecked exception?
23. What is the difference between ArrayList and LinkedList? How will you decide which one you need to use?
24. What is difference between wait and sleep in java?
25. You have started three threads from main threads.You need to make sure main thread complete last. How will you do it?









Spring Boot Interview Questions:


(1) Spring vs Spring Boot
(2) What is Spring Boot and mention the need for it?
(3) Mention the advantages of Spring Boot
(4) Mention a few features of Spring Boot.
(5) Explain how to create a Spring Boot application using Maven.
(6) Mention the possible sources of external configuration.
(7) Can you explain what happens in the background when a Spring Boot Application is “Run as Java Application”?
(8) What are the Spring Boot starters and what are the available starters?
(9) Explain Spring Actuator and its advantages.
(10) What is Spring Boot dependency management?
(11) What are the Spring Boot Annotations?
(12) What are the Spring Boot properties?
(13) What are the Spring Boot Starters?
(14) What is @RequestMapping annotation in Spring Boot?
(15) What is @RestController annotation in Spring Boot?
(16) How to connect Spring Boot application to database using JDBC?
(17) What is Spring Boot Actuator?
(18) How to connect Spring Boot to the database using JPA?















